In this lesson, we'll go over the various Ethereum network types,
and how to connect to them using the MetaMask browser wallet.
We'll introduce you to some of the faucets where you can
request for some play Ether for your wallet counts.
Now, let's install MetaMask.
So, I'm at metamask.io,
and I've attached this link in the resources section.
So, you have two options;
you can download this as a Chrome plugin,
or a Brave browser plugin.
So, I use Chrome and I use Brave as well.
So, for this demo, we'll just use Chrome.
Yes. So, just click on this,
go through the installation process,
and you'll have the MetaMask installed as a Chrome plugin.
Now, once you have it installed,
you can login into MetaMask.
And this is one of the ways you can login.
In here, if you click on the different networks that are available,
you have the main network,
and you have the various tests networks as well.
Let's go back. Main Ethereum,
it uses Proof of Work,
Ropsten uses Proof of Work as well,
Kovan uses Proof of Authority,
and Rinkeby uses Proof of Authority as well.
So, for this illustration, we'll use Rinkeby,
and then I'll just quickly show you how to request for some play money.
So, if you're using MetaMask,
you can go to faucet.metamask.io,
and you can request for 'play ether' here.
So, once you've connected to one of the addresses,
let's say Rinkeby, you can just request here,
and then it'll show up in your MetaMask.
So, you'll have a transaction.
So, I've requested before,
so when you click on that link,
it will show you in ropsten.etherscan when the transaction is successful.
There's other ways to request as well.
So, if you went to,
let's say faucet.rinkeby.io, you can also request,
it has three ways, you can essentially follow these instructions;
Post a tweet or a Google plus or Facebook,
and get the link and post it here,
and you can get the play money given to you through the faucet.
So, I've actually posted on Google Plus.
So, this is basically my Ethereum address,
I copy that link and I put it here,
and then you can say, 'give me Ether'.
So, depending on what you want,
you can get three Ethers every eight hours,
7.5 every day and then 18.75 every three days.
So, I'm just going to go with this one,
and it says, 'Click on all those store fronts'.
So, I think that looks like a store front,
that one also looks like a storefront.
Let's see if it's going to work.
It's thinking thinking thinking.
So, while that's going through,
let's just go through a quick transaction.
So, I've got some play, Ether here.
So, in the previous class, we went through the graphical user interface.
Remember, we have four accounts, so,
let's say we want to send some play Ether from a MetaMask account
to my graphical user interface.
So, I'll go here. Let me just get the address first.
So, go to the first one,
I'll copy my address,
then I'll go to MetaMask and I'll say, 'send',
and over here, so let's say I'm sending one Ether, and say 'confirm'.
You're signing your transaction,
and then within a few seconds,
you should get, there you go.
So, it went up to 6.5,
it was 5.5 before we started the transaction.
Yes. So, in conclusion,
we went over the various Ethereum network types,
and how to connect them using MetaMask,
you browse a wallet plug-in.
Now you know how to request for some play Ether for your faucets.
This wraps up this section,
we'll see you in the next video.